All right, let's work through
the fourth exercise together.
So again, there's a lot of different ways
to do this, but I always wanna just focus
on the accessibility part so not to worry
too much about any JavaScript or CSS.
But so if we go over into our code editor,
I'm gonna close these tabs and
open 4.html.
So the idea is we've got
this navigation list here.
So we know for sure, let's say at
the beginning here somewhere we want
something like a link, and
we want it to say skip to main content.
I think if I save that and then I come
back over to this page, okay, cool.
So we've got this link.
Sorry, I didn't realize I was
still in this answers branch.
Let me check out.
Cool, so we'll go ahead and just like we
did before, but on a different branch,
so I will do a,
we're not sure where it goes yet.
We wanna do skip to main content.
Cool, so we save that, great.
So we've got this thing, and I mean,
that's good for screen reader users now,
we're they'll hit Tab and
they'll have this option.
But it's not great visually for
the rest of these links.
So basically, what we'll want to do
here is we'll wanna find a way to hide,
so I'm just gonna do an inline style tag.
So we'll wanna take this anchor and
we'll give it an id of a skiplink or
something like that.
And then, in CSS, so
we'll take skiplink, and
then there's a lot of different
ways to move things off the screen.
But I think we can just position absolute
it, and then transform it off the screen.
So we can do any of these translates,
something like this.
And so now, if we refresh,
it should be gone, right?
So it's somewhere, where did I put it?
-100% y, somewhere off the screen,
and so that's great, too.
So we can even see,
it's kind of interesting.
I know it's very subtle, but if you're
following along, when we hit Tab for
the first time, now we can see
a little focus ring up here.
So, it's like the browser's indicating
something's focused that's not
in view, right?
Cuz it's our link that's
just not in view right now.
And so the second to last piece of the
puzzle is that we'll also then need to do,
okay well,
when skiplink gets focused, right?
This is, again, like CSS and
HTML communicating with each other, so
when you call .focus or
when you tab to something it gets focused.
And so then, we can do another
transform back, basically.
So whatever we did, and
we'll just set it to 0%.
And so now, if we go back to
the website and we refresh again,
this still needs some cosmetic tweaks,
but when you hit it this thing appears.
And so I think we'd give
it a background color and
some stuff like that to make
sure that it really pops.
I think the New York Times does it cool
where they already have whitespace in
a certain area and
they fill that in with a skiplink.
But I think it's always
fine to just give this,
let's see if we just do background
orange or something like that.
There we go, and then this thing.
Again, we could add some padding,
we could make it nice looking, but
the idea is still there.
And if you hit Tab again,
it takes you to the Home thing.
So the very last thing we need
to do is we need to activate it.
So what happens when
you click the skiplink?
And again, that trick that I had mentioned
earlier where you can add ids to anything.
So you could add an id of
foo to this button, and
then in the a anchor up here,
we could send the href to foo.
And so now, if we refresh again,
we get the thing, we hit Enter on it, and
we can see that it focuses us down there.
So the parts again were
making an anchor at the top,
which is great except it
ruins the visual aesthetic.
Hide the anchor, have a focus
selector that undoes whatever you did
to hide the anchor, absolute position,
moving it off the screen, whatever.
And the last thing is give an id to where
you want people to be able to focus, and
then in the anchor href to that id.
Any questions on that?
How are people feeling
about that in general?
Happy to talk it out or
go over the code again, whatever.
So yeah, if this is for visually impaired
users, why even have the orange button?
So for example, we could even
not have a focus state, right?
We could just have a thing that's
hidden and it'll still show up.
That's a really good call.
I think my thing that I would say is
that it is always incredibly difficult
to try to predict users because they're so
diverse and they're so varied.
And so, for an example,
there was this movement years ago where
websites would have their very feature
rich, robust, beautiful version.
And then, you would click a button that
said I need the accessibility version, and
it would be this nothing fun,
no colors, not at all pretty, black and
white content.
And folks were really upset where they're
like I'm an artist, I love beautiful
colors and beautiful design,
I just need these little bits of help.
So I think about it like that,
that's one answer,
is whenever I'm building these things,
I try to just not, I don't know,
I guess not assume that it's going
to be fully non-sighted users.
And another example would be that what
about just power users who just like
using the keyboard around.
Just the idea of people that do need to
see it cuz they don't have a screen reader
turned on.
And so,
I think those would be my two answers.
You're not sure, some people are keyboard
only and don't use screen readers, so
they need a way.
But then also that it's very difficult
to predict what's gonna happen.
And I gave a conference talk
once on accessibility, and
there was this guy Jennison,
he leads accessibility at LinkedIn.
And he has all these great stories
about these kind of accessibility
misses where people thought they were
kind of doing a good thing or whatever.
And he talks about working for this car
company, he wasn't working for it but
somebody was working for
this car company that did car rentals.
And they had decided
kind of in their head,
not trying to be mean, that well,
since blind people don't drive,
then there would be no need to make
the car rental portal accessible.
Because they could just say, hey,
this is just for renting cars.
And they started getting all these
complaints from blind parents who
are like, hey, I'm on your site, I'm
trying to rent a car for my daughter for
the weekend and you just won't let me.
And so I always remember that story cuz it
really hit me as okay, just trying to make
it as flexible as possible,
basically, cuz you just never know.
But it is a really good question,
for sure.
If you're doing something for
screen reader only,
you don't need to make it visual.
But I would say for skiplinks,
since they're used by so many people,
to make it visual in some way.
And even to go as far as to make
it fit in with your design brand,
the right font and
the right placement, things like that.